Covid 19 has had effects in many areas, and the biggest and most damaging effect has been the effect on the economy of countries. Even though people see and realize the effects of the virus on themselves very clearly, many studies that continue to operate in the background without realizing it have had to reduce or completely stop their functioning due to the virus. When this situation is considered deductively, people have been personally affected. Import and export of products is the best example of this. Imports were suspended during this process and customers began to not be able to have their products as they wished. Since exports had to stop in the same way, it had a bad effect on countries by disappearing in situations where profit could be obtained. In this assignment, I addressed these points in general while preparing the graphs. I had difficulties for preparing this.

If ı talk about the difficulties. I wanted to address and visualize the impact of the virus on the economy by addressing more specific issues, but most of the resources I obtained did not have enough general information and the points I wanted to mention. I wanted to observe the effect of the products they produce on the economy by focusing on the difficulties experienced by the farmers in this process, but I could not see the effective results of this. That's why I couldn't deal with the effects of the economy on the producers in detail in the graphics.

Before visualizing my charts, I did detailed research and data collection. I researched the level of the economy in the world and some countries in the past years, and what was the GDP of the countries. I have observed how much the world has been affected by this situation during the pandemic period.

First of all, I discussed the changes seen in the “Reel GDP Growth” and “Effect of Covid-19 on Regional GDP Growth” graphs over the years. The first graph shows the change in an overall GDP ratio, while the second graph shows the changes that specific countries experienced before and after the pandemic. In addition, the second graph shows that the economy has recovered after the pandemic.

The “Trade Impact of the COVID-19 Epidemic(USD Millions)” chart is an indicator of the amount of money the countries in the chart suffered from the virus. Countries could not do the work they were doing before the pandemic during the pandemic, and most people had to leave their jobs. Countries whose workforce is declining have suffered the losses shown in this chart and their economies have suffered.

“Impact of the Epidemic - Product indicators” and “Impact of the Epidemic - Demand indicators” graphs show the percentage change compared to the same day of the year before the virus in Turkey. In many areas in Turkey, there has been a large percentage decrease compared to the previous year. In particular, automotive production has suffered greatly compared to other products. The reason for this is that the parts come from abroad and these parts could not be imported during the pandemic. Looking at this graph, we can see that the sales volume of food and beverage tobacco has increased. In this case, it can be interpreted as the tendency of people who have to stay at home to consume. No matter how much money flow could not be achieved, countries maintained their domestic products less than before. We can interpret them by looking at the graphs.

In the graphic of "Automotive Industry Production - Export - Domestic Market", we see the most affected area during the pandemic. Automobile production and exports decreased compared to the previous year. However, imports and the market were not affected as much as these two areas. We can show this as an example of the continuation of production and the stagnation of the market.

In addition, the two scenarios I mentioned briefly show that the economic impact of the pandemic affects not only the producers but also the consumers and that they cannot live the course of their lives as they want, and this is actually a small example of this cycle.

My purpose in doing this homework was to focus on the producers affected by the pandemic at first, to observe the effects of the economic difficulties and the effects of the countries on them and to support them with graphics, but according to the resources I could reach, I changed my goal and showed the effect of the pandemic on the economy without addressing a problem. The pandemic has really affected the economy in a way that people cannot even imagine, and the producers who never expected to encounter such a thing have suffered and suffered the problems of the world, as well. However, the world, which got used to the pandemic conditions and at the same time started to get rid of the pandemic gradually, has started to reach its old economic level. We can see these very clearly from the graphics I have visualized.
